Now that our Lambda function has been created, we should see this view here.
This will allow us to review the configuration for our
Lambda function, also review the permissions that are
assigned to this Lambda function,
currently just to enable it to push logs to Amazon CloudWatch Logs, and we can
also monitor what's happening inside of this Lambda function as it continues to
have invocations that we might trigger it from.
So let's go back up to the top and click the Configuration section first.
Now, as you can see here,
we have a CloudWatch event that's been set up to trigger this
lambda‑canary function, and we don't have any destinations that the
lambda‑canary would send information to,
which will be fine for right now.
So let's go down and take a closer look at some of the function code.
Now, AWS has provided this nice in‑browser editor here for us
to work with our lambda‑canary function.
Now, as you'll see here,
there's a few different configuration values that we're able to change
or reset that'll help us set up our Lambda functions,
and it's important to understand how these work so we can edit
them and work with them in later sections.
Now, the first section here is just how we'd actually like to work with our code.
We could edit the code inline in the console here.
We could also upload a ZIP file from our local environment to replace
all the code here, or maybe select a file from Amazon S3 if we've
already uploaded the code there. In this case,
we'll just leave it to edit the code inline.
Now,
next we have the runtime which we selected as we were creating this
Lambda function just as part of the blueprint,
which is Python 3.7, but if we had wanted to use other supported runtimes,
these will all be available from the drop‑down here.
Finally, there's configuration information regarding the Lambda handler.
Now,
the handler is going to tell our AWS Lambda service where to look for
the code when the event triggers this Lambda function.
In this case,
the very beginning Lambda function will tell us to look for a file called
lambda_function.py in this case because we're working with Python. And then the
Lambda handler, if we scroll down and look at our Lambda function in here, will
be the function inside of that lambda_ function .py file that we need to invoke
whenever the event is coming in. And you'll see this is all set up with the
event in context that will be sent in from the AWS Lambda service to this
function to be processed.
Now, inside of this event,
there could be metadata about what needs to be processed and other details
there, but all this function is actually doing, if we start the very top,
is loading in the environment variables of SITE and EXPECTED in order to
work with those and open up a request against a URL. Now the SITE is going
to be the URL to check,
and the EXPECTED is going to be the string that's expected to be on that page.
So if we don't see the expected string on the page,
we'll end up failing later on.
And that's what this first Python function validate will end
up doing inside of our Lambda handler.
It'll simply say,
if the expected value is inside of whatever result we're returning to
it. Now, inside of the lambda_handler function,
we're actually taking the SITE configuration value from the environment
variables, and then we're making an HTTP request to that site to
determine if the site is currently up and running.
If for some reason it's not successful,
it'll throw an error and say validation failed.
Otherwise, it'll say Check passed, and it won't throw any errors.
This is what we'll be using to determine if the site is currently
running as we expect or if there's any issues with it.
So, in order to configure this function, we'll have to scroll down just a
little bit farther and take a look at the environment variables that are
set up for this function. Now, currently,
the expected text on the website is Online Shopping,
which probably appears on amazon.com's website,
I imagine, but if we wanted to change this to something
like Globomantics Pet Care's website,
we could then change this site value here and change it from
amazon.com to whatever site we'd like.
Now I'd suggest you use your own website here because the sites
that we're checking might not be around forever,
and they might also differ from day to day.
Let's just change this to my blog, fernandomc.com, and instead
of the expected value of Online Shopping,
let's just change this literally to the word Fernando,
which is my first name.
So let's save those function changes that we just made here.
And now that we've made these changes to the function,
it'll be checking my blog instead of the amazon.com website.
You could check any website you'd like.
Just make sure to change the expected text is something that
you are expecting to see on that website.
Then,
if something fails on the page or something drastic changes, we'll
be able to know that the website is down and that that is going to
be responsible for sending us an alert.
Now there's lots of other configuration we could change inside of this
function, everything from setting up arbitrary tags on the function that
might help us keep track of different projects or different initiatives
through the role that we created earlier.
Now, this role was created in the very initial stages for our function,
and if we want to take a closer look at it, we can either view it
here by clicking View the lambda‑canary role with the rest of the
gibberish at the end there and click this, and that'll take us over
to the IAM management console.
Now, inside of the IAM management console, we could look more closely at
the policy names that are associated with this role and actually see
what the JSON inside of this policy is. Now, this is really all just
giving Lambda permissions to send logs over to a particular log group
inside of Amazon CloudWatch.
That's the whole automated process that happened in that first
step when we were creating the function.
So let's go back to the Lambda function here.
In addition to the execution role,
we could set up basic settings on the function ranging from memory to timeout.
For example,
if we don't actually think we want this function to run for a full 10 seconds,
maybe we expected to get a response within 3 seconds, we could go
over here and edit our basic settings and changed the timeout
value from 10 seconds down to 3 seconds.
If we're not getting a response that quickly,
maybe we just want to count this as a failure,
and in this case, we trigger a failure here.
Same thing for the memory.
Maybe we think we need a bit more memory to load the site more rapidly.
We could change that value around in here. Or if we want
to change the description of our function, we can also do
that in these basic settings.
So let's go ahead and save these.
And now that we're on the main page for the Lambda function again,
let's set up a test for this Lambda function.
If I click the Test button here, it'll automatically
direct me to configure a test event.
And because this Lambda function was set up with a CloudWatch event,
it'll have the event template for a CloudWatch event.
So if I scroll down here, let's call this testevent1,
and this is what the actual input to our Lambda function will look like
that comes into the event parameter of our Lambda handler.
Different events will have different structures of the data that's inside of
them, and If you want to review what that data looks like,
you could just review all of the different test events that are
located inside of this test console inside of AWS Lambda. But for
right now, we have the one that we're going to need to test out our
CloudWatch function, so we'll leave all of these details here as they
are and click the Create button.
Now that we have a test event saved and created,
we can actually test our Lambda function by pressing
that Test button one more time.
Now it looks like our Lambda function was successful, so let's go review some of
the logs for it right here and click the Details drop‑down.
Now, if we scroll down for the rest of the logs of the execution result,
it looks like we're successfully checking the website that we input earlier
into that SITE variable, and the check is passed. Now,
if something changed on my website and suddenly my name disappeared,
then this would return a failure. And we could test this by
changing the word of the expected to something completely
different that would never appear on my site.
So let's try that now. Let's scroll back down to the
configuration for this function, and let's change this value
to supercalifragilisticexpialidocious.
Now let's save this function And now that we've saved it,
we can test this one more time.
Now that I've run the test,
I can scroll back up to the top, and it looks like we have a bit of a
different result. Instead of the success that we expected before, now
we're getting a validation failure.
That's because this word doesn't appear anywhere on the home page of my blog.
So now hopefully you understand how you can set these site and
expected values to configure your lambda‑canary function.
Go ahead and scroll down one more time, and change the
expected and site values to a website that you would actually
expect to have some text on there.
I'm going to change this back to Fernando for the time
being and save the site one more time.
So once we've done this and we're feeling like our
function is configured properly,
then we can go back up to the top and configure our event to execute now,
instead of just being disabled.
So I'm going to click on the Configuration section. Underneath the
Designer section, I'll make sure I click on CloudWatch Events, and then
I'll scroll down a little bit and change this CloudWatch Events rule
from Disabled to Enabled. And again,
I'll save the function so that this will be triggering every 5 minutes.
Now, if I waited 5 or 10 minutes,
we'd see that this canary function had run a few more times.
If you want to be able to review that and see how
it's running and when it's running,
you can always scroll back up to the top section, and instead of
Configuration or Permissions, you can click on Monitoring. Now,
because you've already seen that I've run this function twice, there
is currently a dot next to the 2 part of the Invocations and
ProvisionedConcurrency section here.
That means that my function has run twice since I've created it.
Now,
if our function continues to run over and over again
over different periods of time,
these charts would start to become a bit more informative.
If we wanted to see these logs directly in CloudWatch,
we could then scroll over to the View logs in CloudWatch button, and that
would direct us over to another AWS service called CloudWatch,
which stores all the logs for our Lambda functions.
Now, you're seeing right here that it looks like we
have a few different log streams,
and they're all pretty close together, definitely around the
time that I was invoking these functions,
and it looks like probably one additional invocation
that happened while I was talking. So let's take a closer look at these logs in the next video.